# Services
Services are single-instanced modules (singletons) that represent game features that you really only need one of.

!!! question "Controllers?"
    Unlike other frameworks, there is no concept of "client controllers." Instead, services can be placed on both the server and client.
    
    Nevertheless, it would still be a good idea to enforce a convention to name clientside services as "Controllers" for clarity.


## Creating a simple service
First, let's define a simple service.

```lua title="src/server/GreetService.lua"
--@service
local service = {}

function service._init()
    print("Hello World!")
end

function service.greet(name: string)
    print("Hello " .. name .. "!")
end

return service
```

!!! warning
    Do not place blocking or heavy code inside of a service's `_init()` method as it yeilds before the next service can start. Instead, you may use the `task.spawn` or `task.defer` functions, respectively. Also note that this method should be defined with `.` instead of `:`.

## Dependency injection
This project aims to reduce the need for manual requires as much as possible. Thus, the preferred way to utilize services is through dependency injection (DI).
It is a technique where an object recieves dependencies externally rather than internally.

In this case, the runtime loader injects other services into the constructors of services that require them.
Utilizing this would decouple your game features and thus allow for modular code, easier testing, and easier refactors.

Let's create a new service that utilizes the `greet()` method of the above `GreetService`.

```lua title="src/server/PlayerService.lua"
local Players = game:GetService("Players")
local ServerScriptService = game:GetService("ServerScriptService")

--if `service_typegen` is enabled:
local DT = require(ServerScriptService.Generated.ServiceTypes)


--@service, depends=[GreetService]
local service = {}

function service._init(deps: DT.PlayerServiceDeps)
    service.deps = deps

    Players.PlayerAdded:Connect(function(player)
        deps.GreetService.greet(player.Name)
    end)
end


return service
```

In this example:

- The `depends` argument accepts a list of service names to inject.
- The `deps` parameter is a table which contains the injected services at runtime.
- We store the `deps` object inside the module so that we could access it in other functions.
- We import the autogenerated type file for the service which contains the injected dependency list type.

!!! note
    The build tool will automatically determine the load order of services based on injected dependencies!

## `@dependency`
This is a simple annotation which `@service` inherits from. Modules annotated with it **are not loaded automatically at runtime**, ie they have no `_init` method. Use this for pure data modules which still need DI.